'\" t 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.TH DSESSION 1
.SH NAME
dsession \- Dynamic Session Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/usr/lib/ConsoleKit/dsession -h|--help"
.sp
.B "/usr/sbin/dsession [option] sub-command"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dsession
uses ConsoleKit tool ck-seat-tool to dynamically add and delete individual
sessions (the dynamically added and deleted sessions are also referred to as
dsessions), uses ConsoleKit tool ck-list-sessions to list all or individual
dsessions.

With --init option, it probes whole PCI/PCIe system, and for each display
\fIdevice\fP it finds, adds a dsession. When adding a dsession, it uses display file
/etc/ConsoleKit/displays.d/HotPlug.display to start an X dsession on a display
\fIdevice\fP identified by its Bus ID, and creates an entry in management table
that has a mapping between display \fIdevice\fP path and dsession ID.  

The management table is referenced and updated in dsession add/delete/restart 
operations.

.SH OPTION
.IP "\-v, \-\-verb"
Print debug messages.

.SH SUB-COMMAND
.IP "\-i, \-\-init"
Initialize: create shared memory and mutex, add all dsessions.
.IP "\-f, \-\-fini"
Finish: delete all dsessions.
.IP "\-c, \-\-clean"
Delete all dsessions, destroy mutex and shared memory.
.IP "\-a, \-\-add \fIdevice\fP"
Add a dsession to run on \fIdevice\fP.
.IP "\-d, \-\-delete \fIdevice\fP"
Delete a dsession running on \fIdevice\fP.
.IP "\-r, \-\-restart \fIdevice\fP"
Restart a dsession running on \fIdevice\fP.
.IP "\-l, \-\-list \fIdevice\fP"
List a dsession running on \fIdevice\fP.
.IP "\-l, \-\-list all"
List all dsessions.
.IP "\-l, \-\-list dev"
List all display devices.

.SH FILE
.sp
/usr/lib/ConsoleKit/dsession
.br
/etc/ConsoleKit/displays.d/HotPlug.display

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
ck-list-sessions (1)
.br
ck-seat-tool (8)

.\" Begin Sun update
.SH "ATTRIBUTES"
See \fBattributes\fR(7) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
allbox;
cw(2.750000i)| cw(2.750000i)
lw(2.750000i)| lw(2.750000i).
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Availability	pkg:/x11/session/dsession
Interface Stability	Project Private
.TE 
.sp
.\" End Sun update
