'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2021, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.TH ansible 1 "22 Oct 2021" "2.10" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ansible \- run a task on target host(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
ansible \fIhost-pattern\fR [-m \fImodule_name\fR] [-a \fIargs\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.sp
ansible --help
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Ansible is a simple tool/framework/API for performing tasks over SSH.
.sp
.LP
See 'ansible --help'  for help on argument, options and usage.
.SH OPERAND
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fIhost\-pattern\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of a group in the inventory file, a shell-like glob selecting hosts in an inventory file, or any combination of the two separated by semicolons.
.RE
.sp
\fBInventory\fR
.sp
Ansible stores the hosts it can potentially operate on in an inventory.
This can be an ini-like file, a script, directory or a list. The ini
syntax is one host per line. Groups headers are allowed and are included
on their own line, enclosed in square brackets that start the line.
.sp
Ranges of hosts are also supported. For more information and additional
options, see the documentation on http://docs.ansible.com.
.RE
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/ansible/hosts\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default inventory file.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/usr/share/ansible/\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default module library.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/etc/ansible/ansible.cfg\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Config file, used if present.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB~/.ansible.cfg\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User config file. Overrides the default config if present.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The following environment variables can be specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBANSIBLE_INVENTORY\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the default ansible inventory sources.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBANSIBLE_LIBRARY\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the default ansible module library path.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBANSIBLE_CONFIG\fR
.ad
.br
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Override the default ansible config file.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Ansible was originally written by Michael DeHaan. See the AUTHORS file
in the source code for a complete list of contributors.
.sp
.SH NOTES
.sp
For other Ansible Command Line tools, see https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/command_line_tools.html
